Hello and all, Harmontown is now in session.
Oh yeah, I have a very good feeling about this one.
My name is Jeff Davis, your Comptroller.
But more to the point, let's talk about the mayor of Harmontown, Dan Harmon.
Thank you.
Wow, you're a lively crowd. I feel obligated to reciprocate your energy.
I don't want to act how I feel.
How do you feel?
In contrast to their jubilance.
Lugubrias, lethargic, laconic.
I feel like Dan Harmon, but you guys feel like Joey from Friends.
You're like a golden doodle. You want to just fetch the rope in the front yard.
I think you just called them stupid twice.
I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry.
Adorable but stupid.
No, but I'm convinced that, no, no, no, no, I didn't mean that.
You're filled with a life that only a god could embody.
I'm not going to let him like, maybe you are stupid. It doesn't matter.
Maybe stupid is what you're supposed to be.
Maybe being smart isn't a good idea. What does being smart mean?
Knowing more about how we're going to die.
Isn't that what we've all found out as we've gotten smarter?
Don't we just figure out more and more about how we're dying?
Didn't dumb people at the beginning of human civilization,
when the life expectancy was 25, didn't everybody think they were going to live forever?
Isn't that why they did so much dumb shit?
Because they thought that gods walked among them and they thought it was okay to abuse each other and themselves.
Because they thought that even though they only lived to 30 before they got eaten by a saber-toothed tiger,
that they were destined for greater things and that they never really died.
And didn't we slowly uncover the fact that we were actually only going to live for a certain amount of time
and then evaporate into the cosmos?
And didn't we uncover those stones?
Didn't we figure out ways to keep us alive a little bit longer, ironically?
Like, oh, also if you take vitamin C, you won't get scurvy.
So we slowly extended the lifespan of an intelligent species to around 80.
And we spend those 80 years knowing that life means nothing.
Oh, shit.
We evolved from a species of puppy dogs, you know?
We used to just be these weird toga-wearing, like, murderers.
Just run around in the dirt alleys just going like,
Ah, Zeus says I can stick a dick in this tree.
Just a bunch of toga-wearing Matt LeBlancs running around.
Yeah.
That's the best character on Friends, right, Joey?
That's the guy you want to be.
That was the Troy, in community terms, like the kind of like, just a dog, you know?
He's like, he loves, he's innocent and sort of looks at things in terms of vertically.
Salt must be better than pepper or vice versa.
There is no salt and pepper.
That's what I always said about the Troy character.
I said, this is a guy who you have to imagine.
Like, don't judge any of these characters, but the character of Troy knows that there's 26 letters in the alphabet
and he knows which letter is more awesome than which.
He doesn't look at it like, like just a line.
He has, and it's not A through Z.
It's like, it's all jumbled up.
Like, he thinks that C is more awesome because it's like shaped like in a more awesome way.
But D's above it.
Anyways, what am I talking about?
Sorry, your energy, your energy.
Let me reward your energy.
What do I got to do?
I'll tell you what you shouldn't do.
You shouldn't do what you did in the green room.
I came into the green room, ladies and gentlemen, moments ago,
and could smell Dan's shit from outside the green room though.
And I came in there and it was, it was heavy.
I made a boo boo.
And you weren't there.
I came in, Dan wasn't there, and I assumed Dan got here,
took a shit, and then quit Harmontown.
Because if I had taken the shit that he took, I would have quit Harmontown.
And so would you have.
Like, while I was doing it, I actually looked up and looked around for vents and stuff.
Have you ever done that?
That's like, you have to be 40 or above to like,
while you're taking a crap, like, actually start inspecting the infrastructure.
I bet, I bet this is going to be a problem.
I think I'm pooping in a, in someone's garage.
I think I'm going to ruin the party.
Yeah, it's bad back there.
The green room is not green.
Do you feel better now? You all right?
I feel great.
I feel emotionally bereft and, yeah, but gastrointestinally clear.
Anyways, let's keep, don't do that.
I'm a bad person. I took stinky shits.
Nobody here has ever taken a stinky shit and bummed anybody out, right?
No, you're all angels. You're all wonderful millennial angels.
You believe in civic service. You vote for politicians.
You believe in causes. You have Facebook causes.
You're going to make everything great with your comments and your comment sections.
You're not Generation X. You're bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.
You're wonderful people. You don't understand why Instagram would have ads.
Shame on them.
You made Instagram with your Instagrams.
Where are these ads going to come from?
I'm not going to Instagram anymore. I'm a millennial.
I hate the millennials, Jeff.
I don't even know if they're millennials or not.
I hate whoever's younger than them.
I'm a little embarrassed to even admit that I don't know what a millennial is.
I guess it's just whatever is after it.
Baby boomer, Generation X, millennial. That's what it is.
Above the baby boomers, it's Graham and Grandpa, the Guadalcanal, the greatest generation.
The people that actually did shit and are now dead because they did shit.
And if they're left alive, they're going like, so the Japanese are good now?
And I'm supposed to care why? And we're like, Grandpa.
Rob Reiner was like, ma-ha, and those are baby boomers.
Rob Reiner on All in the Family, Sally Struthers, those are the baby boomers.
Now Generation X is 40, me.
I'm one of the younger Generation Xers, you two.
We're actually the Generation X, depending on who you ask, Douglas Copeland, whoever.
That Generation, you don't pinpoint this stuff.
It's not like everyone gets together like an Ender's Game and has some brood.
But you go by these sort of sine waves, and I don't want to buy into this shit anymore than anyone else.
However, I do feel like when I listen to today's 13-year-old talk, I do hear my mom.
And I do think that these star children, these fucking new babies that are coming up,
I do think they're full of shit.
I think that they love, like, unity.
I think they love, they don't have that.
I feel like baby boomers were sort of typified by, oh, we landed on the moon, we wood stocked,
we stock hopped, we Billy Joel'd, we did everything.
Hey, Billy Joel'd!
Dan, don't include Billy Joel with wood stock in the space program.
Alright, you're right. He did not start the fire.
I listened to that song today, it was like, you had to be a big shot.
Remember that song where it was like, we didn't start the fire?
There's a part where it's like, children of thalidomide.
Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow.
It's just funny to me that there's a song where you follow the phrase children of thalidomide
with like a hot sizzling guitar riff.
Thalidomide, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow.
Anyways, where was I? Baby boomers with the thing, and we're the David Cross generation.
We keep our flannel tight, we keep our hands in our pockets, we don't look.
We were like, fuck you, fuck everything, fuck, fuck, fuck everything that has a gimmick, fuck it all.
That's not culture either, but we had one thing, we perfected one thing, integrity.
How dare you scoff at that? I heard a full blown like, yeah, that was Adam Goldberg.
A full blown rap. No, fuck you, yeah, integrity.
Are you talking about Mr. Integrity, Adam Goldberg?
Like, the idea, like, that's all you have going for you if you sit in the corner of the room and go like, fuck this, fuck that, fuck it.
You may be part of the problem, you may not be a hero ever in your life,
but at least you know, you know who you are and you know what you ain't doing
and you're not playing into any, like, larger hand.
And I think that because now those people are having children and are kind of going,
I don't know, what do you want to do?
Like, these 13 year olds have these, like, little textures in their hands
and they're kind of like, they're so excited about this idea that we can all be one
and we can all unite and we can all recycle and we can all refreeze the polar ice caps
but the general, like, result is that they're just intolerable fucking cocks.
Wait, 13 year olds?
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
First, I want to be the Ben Franklin of hating 13 year olds.
I'm telling you, we've got six years left to kick their asses.
They're going to be driving soon.
What was the last encounter you had with a 13 year old?
Yeah, Dino's kid.
I don't know.
It's only what I read online.
It's comment sections, mainly.
I just assume all those people are 12.
I assume everyone online is 12, but they're all 40, just like us.
But what about Sexy 12?
42.
Okay, fine, you caught me.
I don't know anything I'm talking about.
That's a millennial way of thinking, right there.
I used to play...
In Generation X, you used to be able to just say shit and get away with it.
Just shit in an American flag and throw it out the window.
You're saying that Generation X had integrity?
Yeah, that's right.
We didn't do anything.
That's right, that's why we had integrity.
As you said, and I...
Here's some things we didn't do. Watergate!
We didn't do that.
We wouldn't do it.
We did allow our country to go to war several times,
and we kept our flannel tight and our hands in our pockets.
Yeah, but we said it was lame.
A really flaccid and effectual generation, I would say.
Yeah, yeah.
Also, let's put a fine point on it.
The 90s, would that be Generation X's music, maybe?
Yeah.
The worst music.
But it had integrity.
Right now, right now.
No, it didn't, because right now, if you turn on satellite Sirius XM radio,
and you turn on the 90s station, a shitty song is playing.
And that is a fucking guarantee.
Jeff, would a shitty generation have the self-awareness
and self-effacement to have a pocket full of its own kryptonite?
That's something that millennials won't do.
All they want to do is bring sexy back.
And bringing sexy back, I got a pocket full of kryptonite!
It's deep!
I don't want to talk about it anymore.
And when I don't want to talk about something, we don't talk about it,
because I'm Generation X,
and you millennials can go fuck yourselves,
because you're 13 and you're 25,
and I don't know what I'm talking about,
but I don't have to,
because I'm 40.
Dan, I think what you're trying to say is that you want them to get off your lawn.
Yeah.
You work hard in that lawn every weekend.
Yeah, that's right.
You're not there with your lawn mower and your mulch?
Yeah, I earned it.
Your lawn has integrity.
Yeah.
And these millennials are stomping all over it.
They're stomping all my lawn with their comments section.
And they're frisbees, and they're hula hoops, and they're whatnot.
Who cares if Instagram's going to have ads?
What did you ever do for Instagram, you fucks?
Wait, Dan!
I was disgusted, America.
I was disgusted.
Instagram said, we're going to have ads now.
I was disgusted by your response, you guys.
It sounds like you're the one disgusted by ads on Instagram.
No, I'm not.
Look, I'm just doing Instagram because I want people to look at my dog.
My dog's sometimes cute when he's sleeping.
Instagram's where I know that 12,000 people will look at it.
I don't care if it says Nike above it or it doesn't.
If it does, tough titties for me.
I guess it's hard to run Instagram.
I'm Generation X.
I know what's up.
It's hard to make an Instagram.
You guys were born into it.
It was Insta for you.
It's already lame to say you're 40 and Gen X.
That's already lame.
Hey, baby boomers came up with that name.
Did they?
We just didn't reinvent it.
We called Generation Y, Generation Y.
Generation Y, like baby boomers, went, I prefer millennials.
Is that true?
Sure, yes.
I don't know what's true.
Generation X is called Generation X
because the baby boomers said, you're like Generation X.
And we went, I don't care.
And then the next generation came along and they went, name me.
And we went, I don't know, why?
And they were like, no, no, star babies.
And we went on a Trivial Pursuit Edition.
Because we have an identity.
What would the trivia categories be on the pie of Generation Y?
Conscientiousness, words that hurt,
fairies, different fairies.
Probably something about vampires and werewolves.
Bloodthirsty monsters that don't have fangs anymore.
All right, what are we moving on to?
I don't know.
You really are a grumpy old man.
You took a huge shit and you came at her and you're now here.
I think we do have a special guest.
I don't want to put her on the spot, but Erin made a new friend tonight.
She was at Kamikaze, which is Stan Lee's convention.
She did a panel with some ladies.
I don't know what the panel was called, ladies of powerful ladies.
I don't know, sexy ladies, I have no idea.
My girlfriend was on it.
But she made friends with a pioneer of what is now a comedic institution,
which is kind of an interesting thing.
You don't know if she's here?
If I just awkwardly say...
Hillary Clinton, everybody, please bring her up.
Did Lorraine Newman make it tonight?
No.
Okay.
Wow.
Who is that guy that's such an expert at her not making it?
This is like a big Mr. Clean guy.
No.
I would know.
That's Chevy Chase back there.
I was hoping to talk to her a little bit about our mutual.
Yeah, we both worked with him.
Wait, so Lorraine Newman was going to be here?
Yeah, she made friends with Erin.
She's a delightful lady.
And then she came to the green room.
She smelled that giant...
Yeah, we made best friends there.
She smelled your giant shit and she fucking phoned out.
I probably fucking smoked her out with my big gross fucking McDonald's poop.
Lorraine Newman, if you're out there, thank you for not coming.
You would have only smelled my poop.
I would love to meet Lorraine Newman.
Yeah, no, it'd be interesting to talk to her just a little bit.
I don't know how sick she is of talking about SNL, but she was there in 1975
at the beginning of what is now the exon of comedy.
But when it wasn't the exon of comedy, when it was a variety show,
it was just a variety show.
It was live.
It wasn't meant to be archived and, you know,
oh, this is Coneheads number three.
This is Coneheads number four.
It was the first NBC show to fire its creator and bring him back.
Yes, yes, yes.
Back when that was cool.
Yeah, back when that resulted in success.
That was the first time.
But in lieu of that, I don't know, man,
this is a Tupperware container in the back of the fridge
that has got a lot of different colors
that I can see through the translucent body.
Jeff, I don't go on Reddit anymore,
and I don't go on...
Well, hold your applause,
because this is a segment of the show
called Because I Don't Go On Reddit Anymore,
What the Fuck Is Going On On Reddit?
Because I get tweeted things.
I got tweeted, Jeff.
Do you know what a subreddit is?
Look, I've gone on Reddit twice,
and I don't understand what the ups and the downs
and there's a little picture of a Martian,
and I don't know what's going on.
It's millennial shit.
Yeah.
They think that's changing the world.
Wait, so you're going on...
It's not a regular forum,
because depending on whether people like what you wrote or not,
it moves up and down.
So if I look at it one day and then go back the next day,
it's all in a different order based on its own popularity?
Yeah.
Gay.
Downvote.
Alright, so...
And I mean gay in a Gen X,
I don't care if gay is bad gay.
Not your millennial,
oh, come on, man, bullying shit, man.
Integrity.
That's not integrity, it's just coping a...
Wait, I'm sorry.
I don't even know what you're talking about.
No, we're not good people, but we think...
No, I'm not saying we're not good people.
That's so retarded.
That's not integrity, that's just...
Integrity doesn't mean good person.
Integrity means...
No, it does, that's exactly what it means.
Integral.
To what?
To oneself.
Self-contained.
Integrity.
I know who I am.
So we're self-contained assholes.
Yeah, sure.
Alright, so you're not...
You know what, some of us are self-contained good people.
Kurt Cobain.
He seemed alright.
On the inside?
Seemed, yeah.
I don't know, he seemed like a good guy to me.
He seemed like he had integrity.
How many of today's artists have the balls
to blow their brains out?
Because they're popular.
Or how many artists today have the balls
to marry somebody who hires somebody
to blow their brains out?
No.
She had him killed, come on.
She fucking had that dude killed.
It's not ours to say.
It's mine to say.
Because you have integrity.
That's my point.
Cherry snacks, baby.
We're not going to go down as the coolest generation
when...
We're not even going to make the top ten
in this century.
Oh, that's true.
But we did open the roads
to trade agreements with China
in our own way.
When you say we, you mean you and me?
Yeah.
Well, you and me and Doug Benson.
No, baby boomers did that on our watch.
Well, they loosened the mayonnaise jar.
But Generation X really,
really drove it home with China.
Wait, we are the reason why
Iron Man 3
had a special segment in it where
Iron Man lands in China and says,
I love China.
That was our doing.
How was this generation?
Does Gen X like China?
We have now come to terms with the fact
that we have to like them.
To the point where we re-edited Red Dawn
and airbrushed out all the Chinese flags
into North Korean flags.
Yeah.
Generation X is the generation
that has now come to terms with China.
Come to terms with it.
The way Newton came to terms with gravity.
This exists.
China exists.
We are the Marco Polo of...
Integrity.
People in a world where China's
already been discovered.
What were we talking about?
A new segment called...
What's on that?
Okay, all right.
So, subreddit.
There's a Harmontown subreddit.
All right.
So, remember our friend Levi?
Yes, I do.
With the shoes?
Are you kind of cross-dressing?
So, he tweeted me.
He's on band now.
Well, Adam,
you're coming up.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Adam has to come up and talk about this.
Adam is a moderator of the subreddit.
Levi was banned.
Wait, wait. Who elected Adam
moderator of the subreddit?
Adam created the subreddit.
Does that works?
Okay.
Adam, would you like...
You don't have to come up,
but I'm inviting you up to...
the subreddit maintenance.
This is a fact-finding mission.
How is adding scenes
to Iron Man 3 Integrity?
I was obviously being
ironic.
You guys are really good at irony.
That's why we invented Iron Man.
Wow.
All right.
We invented loving him.
Okay.
After Baywatch,
there was a wonderful series called
Baywatch Nights,
that everybody watched and it went more than six episodes.
And after Harmontown,
there was Harmontown.com
in the subreddit section
to discuss Harmontown.
So I created it.
Someone annoyed me.
I gave them a week off.
They're back now.
And I learned the depth
to which I am disliked.
I interrupt.
When you say you gave someone a week off,
that sounds like you sent somebody to Tahiti.
On an all-expense paid vacation.
Any other website,
but our Harmontown is Tahiti.
What?
You sent someone to the cornfield
like the kid in Twilight Zone?
That's a good episode.
You banned him from it?
Yeah.
I'm going to start.
It takes one to no one.
Neither do I know, nor do I care.
I don't know what's going on.
I just want to know.
I appreciate.
I'm cognizant of the fact that
dragging you up here
is...
You're up at the plate
with two strikes against you, blah, blah, blah.
But I really do.
I am actually curious.
I also think there's some inherent entertainment value.
At that point, I believed
the first two parts. I did not believe that part.
You don't think that I thought
it would be entertaining to talk about it?
I accept that I would be wrong.
This is like a DVD commentary
about a DVD commentary.
But I wanted to talk to you.
What I was really thinking about
when I was talking about that
was how that...
I've been in the Harmontown subreddit
and I've seen, as in all of Reddit,
you see the brackets and it says deleted.
What does that mean? What happens?
Sometimes it's user deleted.
Sometimes it's automatically deleted.
Sometimes people delete their own.
If you say something like Tahiti being
something-something, you can be like,
I didn't say that at all.
But if someone responds to you and says,
you're full of shit and here's why,
you can go back and delete your comment
and just leave that person hanging there
going like,
you're full of shit, Mr.
deleted in brackets.
Which is why you have to quote extensively.
You have to say,
well, you said this, this and this,
but actually the capital is Mogadishu,
so I think you've been
welcome to the own zone.
Hashtag own zone.
So our friend Levi...
Didn't use that
term.
Our friend Levi is
in the Harmontown subreddit
where let's all
admit that
nobody's
tomorrow's senators are not
running through the Harmontown subreddit.
It is hopefully
a place for misfits.
It's like a field of dreams of glory holes,
but there's some animals mixed in there.
Right.
Okay,
now I'm back in.
It is a place
where normal interactions
are theoretically possible,
but the medium makes them
squealier
than nearly anything else.
Your internet is a toilet
theory. Yes, it is.
And it's horrendous and I'm speaking to you
as a guy who won't even go
back there because I realize
that even the act of being there
can cause harm to people.
So I'm not attacking you,
but I'm definitely curious and think it's an important conversation.
As we talk about going
to form a colony on the moon,
and you are in this situation,
appointed or not, where you created the subreddit,
which I thought was a... I mean...
It's a good discussion venue.
So it put you in the place of a moderator
and now you're in the position, you've got this band button
and you clicked on it for this guy
who's been on our show with his no shoes
and his crazy talk.
I think his thing was he was barefoot
and wanted to be pregnant.
So what did he do
in the subreddit
that made the difference
between clicking ban
and just letting him go?
I think it was like the 87th post
of why did you ban me
that retroactively justified everything,
but if you look at
someone's comments on Reddit, it tells you
how many times you've downvoted them
or how many times you're like,
ah, I don't want to read this ever again.
So his crime was being the Dan Harmon
of the Harmontown subreddit?
He was being the Adam Goldberg
of the Harmontown subreddit.
But the Adam Goldberg of the Harmontown subreddit
banned him, which is why this is so fascinating.
It isn't.
At some level, that arbitrary power
has the ability to be arbitrary.
But why did you ban him?
It was getting to the point
where every single comment
was him responding to someone,
and I'm going to take this at personal level.
Back in January,
at the show at the Egyptian
when I rushed on stage and embarrassed myself,
that was because
I was thinking about Harmontown almost all the time.
What am I going to say at Harmontown?
What should I do for Harmontown? What should I wear for Harmontown?
That wasn't a very healthy place to be.
And when you see someone
who's all their internet posts are,
this relates to Harmontown. This is how I feel about Harmontown.
Is that how you feel about Harmontown?
You realize that in someone else
is something that's been plaguing you.
And so giving them,
it's arbitrary, it's a sign of power,
and I regret doing it because
the entire community's consensus was I shouldn't have done it.
Okay, so this is confessional for you, right?
This is the trap you fell into.
You felt like
a nerd and an underdog
and you felt like you had
done things that you shouldn't have done
and then you saw someone else doing them
and you were like, yeah,
and that's what we all do.
I didn't go about it very eloquently.
Internet is not a venue for eloquence.
It doesn't have a lot of eye contact.
It doesn't have pitch.
I have a very high standard for word choice on the internet.
Absolutely.
I demand 100%
being sarcastic.
Otherwise, deleted by deleted, we'll get up in there.
But
the fact that we can
create communities about communities
by someone who created community
shows
your theory that millennials
are a really abstracted
pictures of pictures of pictures
of frames generation because
everything is iterated.
Everything has a comment section.
Everything is a direct response.
A way to yell at Clint Eastwood,
hey, at Clint Eastwood, you are
tag-worked, lols, hashtag
lols.
The person who reads that can click
every other instance of someone misspelling
laughs out loud.
And that's our culture.
And it may not be Kurt Loder on MTV News,
but it's...
LAUGHTER
APPLAUSE
A chill shot from...
It's everyone thinking they're Daria.
It's every single Daria in the high school library
writing to every other Daria.
And that's really interesting because nobody
would be more into that than Gen Xers.
That's how we approach it.
We're like, oh, shit, everyone's a Daria,
but fuck these Darias using this thing.
That's interesting.
Because we thought Kurt Loder was
as good as it got.
No, we didn't.
Yes, we did, Jeff!
Stop, don't be a fucking cell out.
No, Dan, stop tying me to fucking Kurt Loder.
Jeff, you loved him.
Please welcome to the stage Kurt Loder.
I'm here.
I don't...
LAUGHTER
Kurt Loder.
What does that guy do wrong?
He did nothing wrong, but he didn't
speak for us.
I wasn't saying he was the Walter Cronkite
of our generation.
That was the implication.
What Adam was saying, what I'm extrapolating
from that, is that
a huge technological
threshold that we crossed between these
generations, depending on where you draw the line,
is that we went from passive
one-way transmission into
interactive.
We have a generation that's grown up on the internet.
That means that they get to say
something back.
It doesn't fucking matter to Rupert Murdoch
what they have to say,
but we have to all deal with each other
in this swirly, eyes-wide shut toilet
of everyone saying back
to each other.
And Gen Xers are coming from a place of like,
a big day.
You did what you had to do,
and you put yourself out there.
If somebody had something to say back,
it got back to you
through less channels,
thinner, fiber-optic lines.
And now we're all swimming around
in this turd pit.
It used to take real effort to threaten a celebrity.
You need to find out their address.
You need to get to the post office, get a stamp.
And now it's just a few
clicks on your phone.
That has a deeper effect
than just being allowing us to yell at each other
a little louder.
My big concern is the
psychological or philosophical,
maybe you would call it,
the impact of people feeling like
it's revolutionary
to use
that medium
to police each other
when
in my day, Kurt Loder
told kids what to dance to.
And there was a president above him
who went to war with all the countries
and launched the Tom Hawk missiles.
Nobody ever questioned the politician.
You're exactly right.
That's not how MTV worked, because it had nothing to do
with what the president did above him.
But Kurt Loder told the kids
what to think and what to feel,
and the kids told Kurt Loder whether or not
he was full of shit, and you reacted to Kurt Loder
by getting your haircut different from Kurt Loder
or getting your haircut the same as Kurt Loder,
and nothing ever affected the fucking president.
Flash forward to today where you have a president,
and instead of Kurt Loder,
you have 8 million fucking YouTube channels.
You have a bunch of people swirling around each other.
What you don't have is anybody
asking what the fuck the president is doing.
That's why it's a little infuriating to me
that the toilet underneath
what used to be Kurt Loder is now
consumed with policing each other.
It's like they've tricked us into
like self-hatred, which is a common thing
that happens all the time.
We're like, are you racist?
Are you sexist? Are you...
We're gonna do this dance forever?
Really? Like, like, like, like...
Yeah, everyone wants to squeebsquab everyone else.
Yeah. But I'd like to...
I'm alarmed about it because
they...
they turned the key on the internet.
They're like, here we go everybody,
here's the internet, and the government
must have been like, holy shit, what the fuck
are they gonna do?
And they crossed their fingers
and closed their eyes, and then they slowly
and all they heard was got milk ads.
What's up? What's up?
It's a super friend's doing what's up.
But between Kurt Loder and the internet
there was a show called TRL.
Total Request, one woo for TRL,
which is accurate.
Total Request Live was the bridge between
mass culture and prescribed culture.
Yes, because you could totally request. Live.
People would go to New York and make part of their visits
standing outside MTV Studios
saying, I need to hear bye-bye-bye.
I need to hear bye-bye-bye.
Technology which had never existed on Good Morning America.
Yeah.
Well, but now there's nothing like that
because you can watch music videos whenever you want.
You don't have to hear a snippet
of 98 degrees' new hit.
And you don't have music video
television telling you
whether or not this is a hot record
or something that's going to be into the pit.
But that affects consumption. It doesn't affect
how we react to the people who live behind these marble walls.
No, it's not a wealth
poverty dynamic. It's a person
to listener dynamic.
Isn't that crazy? Isn't that weird?
Isn't that weird?
The ability for all of us to talk to each other
all of a sudden has absolutely no impact
above a certain level.
It didn't. Do you think the patricians in ancient Rome
were like, oh, that guy,
these scribblings, these rude
frescoes are really...
I think that in ancient Rome when somebody
announced that there was a new way
to measure a rectangle, sometimes
that dude got his fucking arms and legs cut off.
Oh, yeah, bad example.
Because it threatened the way we thought about government.
There was a lot of murder because of people's ideas
in ancient Rome.
I think that the guy that decided the sun
was at the center of the solar system,
a seemingly benign idea,
was forced to repent.
A benign idea that wasn't in the Bible.
Correct.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Because now that we've defeated
the Christians,
now we have no more power structures
to overcome, right?
We don't have a religion in this world
that's telling us what to think about.
If you go look at Tehran or something,
that religion as a powerful societal influence
can be extremely
restrictive in what people say,
but also how they think.
They found that in some Saharan-African
cultures that if there's no past tense
there is no words
that follow concepts like promise.
There's no word in Swahili for promise.
Because it requires
the past tense of I said I was going
to do something now.
I'm not under that obligation.
Words are directly power
and when you give words like the Bible,
like the Torah, like the Koran,
the power to be absolutely true
and free of the strictures of science
and free of the questioning of the man on the street,
those words gain eternal power.
Now we don't have that.
The internet, it was even there at all.
One of the first websites I visited
was called Skeptics Annotated Bible.
That was when I was a little shit.
It was 2003. I would sneak off
from Swim at a summer camp
and look up all these passages of the Bible
and then like little pictures on the side.
It's like, how can that be true?
That's mathematically false.
What did it say in Genesis 1?
And just the ability to
transmit ideas
instantly against the strictures of religion
has like a Martin Luther
effect on changing our culture.
A Gutenberg effect.
We beat the Bible a million years ago.
You can look at the skyline
of a city and see
the buildings that have to do with money.
Sonic the T-shirt, jacket,
and a Power Ranger shirt.
The power combo has now reached a stage.
How you been?
You can applaud for Hazy. How you been?
Building rocket ships?
Hazy just joined us.
Thinking about today has come up on stage.
I was just thinking about you the other day.
We squandered our Armenian
who was actually building spaceships.
Well, I was just helping people
build them.
You're doing more than Adam
in terms of spaceflight.
Once we get to the moon
we may need Adam to tell us...
What compelled you to come up to the stage?
The idea that we beat religion
and it's just like a big no.
No, no, no.
All I've done is read.
I'm not going out there.
I'm not actually
talking to people.
It's just things I've read.
If you go to any kind of area
outside of a city
things can be hundreds
or at least 60 or 50 years
behind what we think
we've already beaten.
Absolutely.
When we talk about, oh, that's just rural area.
Well, that's most of the country.
Most of the world places
where children can't go to school because of their gender
we haven't beaten religion.
In Los Angeles we have.
In Los Angeles you could be gay 80 years ago
and it wasn't a huge deal.
But in most of the country that is tantamount to saying
the devil has control of your senses,
motivations and instincts.
You are a flaw.
Absolutely conceded, you guys.
However, as a sort of like
the people that are making things
the people that have constructed
the glass in your eyeglasses
the people that are, like
as a society, the people that have built
the skyscrapers that are taller
than the churches on the skyline,
the people that are printing the newspapers,
the people that are kind of like, you know,
secular.
The people that are in the silent majority.
It's strong language to say
we won, we beat them
because that implies there's no more fight
to be fought.
What I mean when I say that is
we
have to get our shit together.
We are empowered now.
We know
that logic
is important.
I really agree. I think
that, and this is something very strongly
I guess I'd like to broadcast
out to the world, I think everyone needs to
pick the path of least resistance.
You don't argue with people, arguing
never convinces someone of anything.
We just convinced him of something.
Well, he's open.
No, that's not true. If you guys had told me
that I was wrong about something, I would have
batted it off because I'm a primate.
You changed me by
saying how you felt about something
and I was invited to
make sure that you knew that I was also in that
water. That's important to know.
And yet you're open, you're one of the most open
people, you're open to people coming up
and I just walked up, I had no right to do it
and you're fine with that, ish.
You know,
don't do it, you guys.
But
it's fact
that
I've been
trolling ish, the Fox News comment
section, and just being like
Obama's trying to give me gay healthcare,
just trying to take it to the
extreme, the extreme
level to see when they go back
and other Republicans will be like, I don't think
he's trying to do that, that hasn't happened yet.
They just kind of agree.
There's so little
resistance to just going into the
New York Times Facebook comment section,
no matter what the story is, and just saying, God is real.
And someone will pick a fight with you,
someone will pick a fight with you, and then
when they do you say, that's a good point, but you
forgot that God is real.
But I can't
even remember what
it's like this, this is this rabbit hole
that we go down. I mean, if you guys want to
get in a knife fight with
people that are,
you know,
they sort of like have constructed
their world view around
something that absolutely needs to be
argued with.
But there's a mindset where
like, you know, I know
atheists that are
so immature about their atheism
that I sometimes encourage
them to just be Christian.
Like, you're so,
you're such a fucking zealot
about how God
doesn't exist. Like, I feel like
you're protesting too much, and like, I
didn't walk into this bar
feeling like God didn't exist so
much that I needed to get into a knife fight
about it. Whereas you do, so
maybe you need to go back to the
thing. And I also know atheists
that are the most compassionate,
wonderful, like, that's why
they're technically, the word atheist
almost is. Sorry to cut you off.
Go ahead. I don't
think, people think when you become an
atheist or a Christian, that's like an achievement, but
no, I feel like an asshole will be an asshole
in any culture. They're just going to grow
up and be like, oh, this
is the way I get to be an asshole and tell
people what to do. And in some cultures
it's easier to be this way or that way.
It doesn't matter.
We need to stop thinking of the
spectrum between atheism and Christianity.
It's just, you're a cool dude
and you're not a cool dude.
And so when we talk about
subreddits and we talk about
AV club, we talk about defamera, we talk about
we're living this post internet world, the
internet was created by
these programmers.
It was created by the military to
communicate ideas really quickly. Yes.
The military was like, what if you made
computers together?
It's not helping us kill people. Give it to the
libraries.
But I'm talking
about the code
that was built.
What is it? 40 years old now?
What is Unix?
There's the code that we've built our entire
virtual
structure on.
I'm pretty sure that those guys
didn't go home at night and rubbed rosary beads
and stuff. I think those guys are
maybe some of them were Christian.
Stephen Colbert is a fucking Christian.
But
I also think they're logicians.
They have to be.
They are pragmatic people.
Dan, can we get back to
the thing I started this all was you saying
that you are now not on subreddit, you're not on
the internet anymore? Well that's because
I'm hurting people every time I get on the internet.
So no Twitter, no Facebook? Twitter is fine.
Twitter seems to be doing fine.
So I put
pictures of my dog on Instagram and I'm on
Twitter and then on Tumblr
and people can
send me messages and
these kids send me messages
and sometimes they say
I'm gay and I want to kill myself and I can
write them back privately if they wrote privately
and go don't do that. Keep being gay.
It sounds like you missed out on everyone
after that episode where you felt that
you were hurting someone. Everyone's like no I want Dan Harmon
to keep talking. Yeah it was like 98%
Dan Rose.
Well there's a polarizing effect of that
stuff. You know what you have to do
in those moments? You have to shoot straight through
the middle and I don't want to
get warped by that idea.
I just felt like, I don't know, you follow your
bliss. My bliss is not
hanging out on there. I'm not doing it passive
aggressively. How was anybody's bliss
living in a fucking comment
section? I can't understand it. Exactly
I mean I was born in 1973
I'm an old, funny daddy. Get off my lawn
you whippersnappers. But fucking
comment sections is just a bunch of fucking
anger, a bunch of misguided
spleen for no reason. Well I
think it would be sarcastic like me in trying to
get a reaction. I will answer that question Jeff.
Adam you at Mad with Power
you were in control of something and the first time
somebody reminded you of
yourself you
snuffed them out like a cigarette. It's an
ugly, ugly world.
And the reason I looked at Reddit
I went down a thing and some things
people say very sweet things. Sometimes people say
I don't like it. Here's wine. It's very
succinct and very well worded and lovely
but mostly it's just a bunch of spiraling
nonsense and I'm not trying to
stop what's going on here
but watching four men talk about religion
and politics is like the fucking
like it's all guys do. Guys get together
we have a couple drinks and we try to
not like girls.
We haven't even talked about Jesus's shoes
which are fantastic but I did mention
you sure. Adam I was talking. Shut the fuck
up.
No women talk about interpersonal things
and guys try to solve the world's problems
and we get together and we just spiral around
and do all this stuff and the internet to me
is just this weird spiraling morass
of inanity and I look at it
and it's just like if I
want to just complain I'll type some shit
and it's watching people just bicker and I hate
bickering.
It sounds like you hate waste.
Waste of time, waste of energy
waste of the
English language. I hate
the
abbreviation of our language
into clicks and grunts which
H.L. Menken in the 20s or 30s
predicted before typewriters
and computers and before. I mean not before
typewriters but before people
wrote through typing.
He predicted that our language would be reduced
to a series of short grunts and clicks
and abbreviations
and anagrams or
what's the acronyms.
And he's absolutely right. It's like
watching people have discourse like that
it's
shocking, our language is dying
and I think there's nothing
to be proud of by a culture
that communicates through feedback
loops like that. I think that
there's no art to it, there's no
intelligence necessary
and I think there's no vetting process
and there's no qualifications for someone
to go on there and moderate
something to ban somebody, to go on there
and flame somebody, to go on and torture people
to go on and tell you to shut up, for you to
feel bad about that, for you to even care about it
like
I go to restaurants, I look at Yelp
because Yelp is great because it tells you where
if I travel a lot and I'll type in
Italian restaurant if I'm in the mood
or pizza or Thai food or whatever I want
and you look at it and I look for the worst reviews
and if I see some cunt or douchebag
or some guy going, I went on the first day
to Bangkok Thai
and my day was pretty unhappy
like you had a bad time, you're an asshole
if I find the most bad reviews
I go to that restaurant because
you won't be there
Yeah, well, so, but
listen, so you go to the drawing
room, you got your suit on, you play darts
you have the same conversation you have
with the regulars there, there's some
repetition there, there's some inefficiency there
I'm not standing up for what you're talking about
but I'm saying it is human nature
there's introverts and extroverts
there's people who want to look good
and people who are better at making eye contact
I'm not in that school
I'm graduating, I'm being forced to graduate
at 40 years old
I do not
want it to be happening to me
but I didn't want to quit smoking either
I have to get off the fucking internet
and I have to go sit in a corner
of a bar and drink
Let's all get off the internet, let's all throw it in the toilet
Another last episode everybody
You guys were talking about before
or not
The internet can be revolutionary
and the moment there is a protest
in Seattle against the World Bank
and they
turn off your fucking twitter, they turn off your phones
so people can't say let's all meet
and let's go protest and one person says
hey let's all go break some windows
that person goes to jail
and didn't commit a crime but for inciting
a riot
the Egyptian Spring
they made our telephones illegal
because it can be very powerful
we do have in our fingertips
the ability to take down
institutions, governments
all kinds of things
they are very happy to watch
just LOL at LeBron James' tweet
about somebody's asshole
that's what it all is
the moment it becomes effective and we do anything with it
it's possible to be great graffiti on walls
like the situation is where they would write
the graffiti was incredible
political screeds and things like that
that made sense and were provocative
the moment you provoke anything on twitter
they just shut off your cell towers
and
they don't want you to actually communicate
so what we've been limited to
is pretending that what we're doing
when we're typing these things in
and thumbing things instead of talking to the people
and making eye contact with anybody
we're not communicating shit
we're inverting
like a CQCumber
we're not doing anything positive at all
I'm going to disagree, communication doesn't have to be revolution
and fun can be fun
just because we're not
marching on Washington or driving our trucks
there in some failed attempt
to take out people in suits and change things
fun is always legal
revolution is always illegal
that's the point because it's against the law
no one is going to outlaw checkers
you can play candy crush
but the moment you use our ability to communicate
with each other for anything that's provocative
or possibly revolutionary
that's when it's going to be illegal
absolutely
I don't think we're revolutionizing anything
in person either
and if the feds are the only people that have phones
that are capable of twitterizing
I don't want to live in that society either
I missed the good old days
because we were the last people that were actually born
I think that
born in 1973 I remember
no answering machines
the answering machine was an invention as I was a child
and before then the phone just rang
and if you didn't pick it up you weren't home
and fuck you ant whoever
like I ain't coming
and I remember
as like being a kid my mom and dad like the phone rang
and we all look around and it's like ring
and we'd all just like have a fork up
my dad would have a cocktail
my mom would have a glass of wine
and we'd all just look at each other like
we ain't doing it
and the beauty of
solitude and then I remember
like I had a pager
after people had cell phones
I got a pager and I was like I'm anchored
to the sea floor now
I can never ever be alone
I can never ever be free
I think that's my grumpy
curmudgeonly grumpy old man thing
is like there was a time when
you weren't constantly tethered
to every fucking person
but we're talking about two different things
you're as a guy who
wears a suit to a bar and talks to people and hangs out
you are getting
a huge amount of usage out of the fact
that everyone's interconnected through the internet
Yelp is one example that you mentioned
you're asking a different question
which is why would
anyone ever choose
to emotionally invest themselves
into the conversations that take place
on the internet as opposed to the conversations
that take place between you and your friends
at a dart board and a bar
the answer is because in those conversations
people like me
are rendered completely irrelevant
and also look at everything
as irrelevant
I don't want to talk to those people
I've seen those conversations
I don't get any joy out of them
I don't like interpersonal small talk
you have an entire book just of things
you wrote because the internet gave you
a place where you could write them
I don't remember a goddamn word of those things
my girlfriend published a book of them
I was 40 years old walking
into my house and
I don't remember writing any of that shit
and if that medium hadn't existed
I would've
they'd be in a diary somewhere
not even no way
because with a diary there would've been no illusion
that anyone I was out there reacting to me
there was something strange that happened to me
when I discovered that thing called blogging
which had that dumb word
and all my hipster friends were going like
blogging blog blog blog
blog blog blog blog
and I was like you know what
I still hate blog
hate away
also webisode
fucking webisode
I would come home at the end of the night
and I would have a medium
in which I could type my thoughts
which I somehow felt
like
someone's going to read this somehow
it's just some weird
paradoxical thing
whatever I want because no one's ever going to read it
or care about it
but only if people could read it theoretically
would I ever write it?
why no you're not going to reread it
why would you scroll it on an app kit
what am I, seer hand seer hand
so Dan you're saying that now
you foresworn emotional reactions or connections
to the comment sections
and reddits and things
I'm not going to declare policy
because I find that
I followed my bliss
I deleted
my reddit client from my phone
and I've deleted
my only
avenues of connection
and believe me
there's nothing against reddit because
it's only against the secondary effects
that can happen because reddit actually
is such a beneficial medium
I think because of its conversational
tone
that it lends itself
to the Gawker Defamer kind of
for a guy like me
because of celebrity and the intersection
between celebrity and technology
Jeff I'd like to say
you having a cell phone is wonderful for your life
you're an actor, you don't want to be
in your apartment every day hoping
that you hear back for a part
you can go out, you can live a life
you don't have to worry about the answering machine
you don't have to worry about not having an answering machine
as someone who gets gigs while he's driving
or while he's at a party
or at a friend's house being able to take
work with my pocket is tremendously
freeing because there are some days
the phone doesn't ring at all but
it's 7pm on a Sunday
I like to be able to know I'm going to work on Wednesday
and not have to be at home
Adam, why are you mad at me right now?
he thinks that you
that you might possibly
convince everyone in a room full of people
to unplug the internet
because you have
flesh and blood efficacy
which is something that Adam and I do not have
and so we like to sit
in the corners of our dark apartments
or in my case mansion
because of what I write
I love that you just
you've committed to being a bad person
we get an emotional charge
I was going to say it's neither healthy nor unhealthy
but I might as well just say it's unhealthy
but it's
it can't possibly produce good effects
I mean none of us are living
in the days of Jane Austen
and was she nailing it?
are we supposed to be going to picnics
and doing special dances
among the nobles
to strengthen some kind of class system
and having
it's a shame that you go to a dinner
and your elbows are on the table
Adam has just broken into a flask of booze here
I don't know what that is
Harmontown Earth Shine
give more than you take is the slogan
of Harmontown Earth Shine
I don't even know what this is
who made this booze
sorry we should have whoever is responsible
come up and take credit for it
get up here
I'm holding a
I didn't know I think somebody must have
hello
what's your name sir
I'm holding a bottle of
it says
it's Harmontown Earth Shine
and the slogan is give more than you take
so
tell us about this
I started making
I started home brewing about 20 years ago
it's moonshine
what kind of liquor is it
130 proof
oh I can't drive home now
but yeah the base liquor is actually
Santa Monica tomorrow
I have to write like three episodes of community tonight
just that sip is going to make the third one
about like socks
it's distilled from mead
so I mix
basket honey and maple syrup
pass that shit down Adam
fermented out with
champagne yeast
and then doubled and tripled distilled
wow we
I love that
Dan took a sip and became a lyric from George
George Jones white lightning
sounds bugged out and his face turned blue
yeah I had immediate
sensory memory of that Nashville show
but I
that's delicious
I love that it's earth shines
it carries a lot of flavor
from the honey
forward
when did you first start brewing alcohol
you could run your fucking car on that stuff
so it's strong
it's like paint thinner if a paint thinner
it'll take sharpie off
it's actually the base
I use I keep some of it
pure like this but I usually actually
as a base for an absence that I make
every year
I can't believe it took us this many episodes
for people to start making us our own booze
I love that
it's earth shine because we'll be living on the moon
that's brilliant
so Glenn how does somebody get into that
so like somebody you're into ships and bottles
and you're so it's funny
so I actually I started
actually making a beer homebrew
about 20 years ago
we're not breaking so many federal laws by passing this booze around
we didn't sell it
it's not being sold it's being sold
hey give that back
so I'm actually
I'm a scientist
I have a phd
metallurgical engineering
and this is
it's a hobby
but it's a hobby there
we're all going to jail tonight I love this
organ related
something good is about to happen right now
it's already happening
9-11!
it makes someone
good is about to happen
why were they storing so much smoke in the World Trade Center
Glenn, alright
everybody calm down
this is interesting
Glenn
Dan have more moonshine because I want that natural energy
you had back
because at one point
you started dipping cheese sticks into ranch
smaring the ranch
shave cream
you can cut it
put it on the rocks cut it with a little bit of water
it's over here
it's back in the house right now
so Glenn it's an interest that started with you
with making a homebrew beer
so you're making stuff in your garage
that's designed to
sip and get fucked up on
but with homebrew beer
you have that sort of logical
out of like well it's beer
it tastes good
when you branch out into moonshine
you're sort of like
you're becoming more of a Timothy Leary figure
I'm just curious about
it's really
for me it's more about the absence
I also have an herb garden
I grow all my own herbs that go into the absence
and then it's something that I offer to friends
every year
you're on the guest list for the rest of your life
you are all my friends
let's have a hand for Glenn
and let's say goodbye to Adam Goldberg
too
thank you Adam
I mean
I think we had an
that wasn't a show killer right
we had an interesting conversation about
the future of the internet
I think it's something that
it's not going to get solved here
I think we all have different reactions
you make a good point that you
you have a relationship with the internet
that I don't have because I'm more of
I'm a more gregarious person
and when I look at people
having fake or what I perceive to be
that's not overstated
there's lots of stuff I've seen on forms
and non subreddits and stuff
the two times I've gone to it or whatever
people are having discourse
it is actual conversation
it so quickly dissolves
into ego
and me me me me me me me me me
kind of stuff
there's just so much bickering and fighting
that I can't dig it but
I like to go
be alone in public
I love being around people and not talking to them
I don't need that much interaction
I think it's awesome
if you said
you don't want to have that much of an emotion
you don't want to tie your ego
to the internet as much as you do
well I can't anymore
I'm not allowed to anymore
you are allowed to
I was talking to a community writer
tonight at the drawing room before the show
and he was talking about some guy
a professor at some college
he was using an example
a phrase he used
where he said
this guy was a critic of literature
and so
he became prominent
and he didn't become prominent because he was good
it wasn't because he was bad
he just became prominent
he was a critic of literature
and then he would
criticize Hamlet
and then there were people that would go
holy shit this guy
wow Hamlet even
he can criticize
he's the best and then there were other people that would go
are you fucking kidding me
you lock you in a coffin
and throw it in the ocean criticizing Hamlet
go fuck yourself
and it was polarization
this guy
and the phrase he said
this community writer telling me about this guy
that really hit home with me was
oh it kind of warped this guy
which made me realize oh you know why it warped him
because he was thinking about
both of those things
because neither of those things are true
he should be allowed to just have an opinion
about Hamlet
and if he's prominent because of it
that's just tough titties for him
and tough titties for anybody that listens to him
he's not allowed anymore
to base his identity
on what people think about him
because he has entered the business of being prominent
whether he liked it or not
and boy oh boy
I'm sure he looks forward to the day when he's not prominent anymore
but until then he's going to steer between
those columns
and affect it by the gravity on either side
there's some people saying he's a god
and some people saying he's a devil
and they're all full of shit
they're not talking about a person anymore
they're not talking about a guy who read Hamlet
that has a feeling about it
how does that relate to you
it means that I have to stay off of
forums, reddit, comment sections
all that stuff
because that's where people will say that I am a god
or a devil
I cannot let that stuff affect me anymore
you're great
speaking of great, let's bring Spencer on stage
hey guys
how are you guys doing tonight
I'm not you audience
the two on stage
Spencer's gotten mad with power
so do you ever
when a friend or a roommate or a family member
takes a shower
and right when the door opens
or right after
they open the door and it's like
hot and wet air
that's what's going into the green room tonight
was like
I'm sorry
it was certainly hot and wet
it was wet, that wasn't even Dan's fault
it was humid
it was my fault
the orchids were growing
it was
I sprayed a lot of Lysol
that always made it worse
I think the poop rode on the Lysol particles
and distributed
out into the room
the thing that makes
Lysol effervescent
cruise throughout the air, just carried your poop
like a magic carpet ride around the room
and your poop was wearing cheap cologne
nah, it's funny because
it smelled like shit
it takes a big man
to take that bigger shit
and an even bigger man to say
I'm so sorry
here's why I don't think you're a big man about it
it was right before showtime
and you weren't there
part of you was there
a certain essence of you was there
that's not my fault
various molecules that you created were in there
but you were gone
like you left a scene of a crime
that's all at Aaron's doorstep
you can ask her about why I wasn't in there
she took the shit
are you covering for her shit?
no, I'm throwing her under the bus
and then she can
I'm leaving it up to her if she wants to talk about it or not
are you saying that that was her shit
no, it was my shit
I swear to God
I was sitting in that room
and actually feeling like in a weird medieval way
like I deserved to be sitting in here
Neil, the documentary guy
over here
came in and I didn't say anything to him
I don't have that kind of relationship with him
I didn't say, sorry I took a huge shit
you might want to go
insert shot of the fucking specs
on the
look, fuck all of you
I'm telling you my thought process
I didn't
welcome him into that world but I knew that he was
probably sitting there going, why does meltdown
comics smell like human
fecal matter
and I was just kind of sitting there thinking, I deserve this
and then a conversation
came up between me and Neil
and Aaron had an emotional
reaction to it and took me out to the parking lot
that she wanted to talk to me about
and that's why I wasn't in the room
because otherwise I would have sat there
and owned it
and I deserved to inhale all of it
participated in our agony
and then it was only when I came back
because
you know how you leave a room and then
when you come back into it
it's like, holy shit
that's when I knew I had done a bad thing
maybe did a bad, bad thing
what was the
we should bring Aaron out
Erin McGathy, join us
now
because honestly I'll leave it up to you
if you want to talk about it or not
really quick, you know when all of your friends
see a horror movie and they're like, oh god you gotta
see this movie, it's so scary, it's so terrifying
and you see it and you're like, I don't get it
that was like me walking into the bathroom after you had
I can't smell it anymore
wow
Stockholm Syndrome
yeah, she's
you've identified
with the terrorism of Dan's asshole
as far as the parking lot incident
I'm not a proud person
I'm not
proud of this but I don't
see Dan very often
I was out of town
and I heard about
whenever I see Dan I'm always
asking him how was work, how was this thing
how was your walk to the store
what was that thing
and Dan's understandably tired
and doesn't tell me things
Neil knew something that I didn't
that I was very excited about
so I got bummed out because I felt like
he didn't share with me
I don't talk about work when I come home
there's so much going on
I'm semi-conscious of
how much I'm not telling you
kind of a little bit
it's not a big deal, I had a big reaction
to it because I was like
and it was unexpected that Neil came in
because Neil's making this documentary
the Harmontown documentary
Neil Berkeley, fantastic filmmaker
is sort of
it tracks Spencer a little bit
as it should
a representative
of fans
I don't know, whatever, he's interesting
I'm a metaphor
it really has nothing to do with the documentary
my feelings, I just wanted to know
I'm not explaining
anything about it
I'm catching people up
on something
so because Neil's making this
movie that has to do with Spencer
I told Spencer
I think yesterday
something that I hadn't told anybody
which was that
I had recently, willy-nilly
in order to save myself some work
I had cast Spencer in a role on Community
and so I told Neil
I said, oh, Spencer's going to be shooting
next week
so you could come for your documentary
that would make a good final image
and see Spencer at it
so Jeff doesn't know that
you guys don't know that
Neil knew that yesterday
and then Erin was in the green room smelling my shit
Dan, can I go talk to you in the parking lot?
and
and Erin
felt like she was
she just feels locked out of my life
only because we had been talking, yeah because I just don't see him
it really has nothing to do with the information
it could have been
it's really not a big deal
it was a big deal at the time
I mean we had to go to the parking lot
I just wanted to
talk to you
well also because we had talked about it
before because it was something
that I was hoping was going to happen
so I felt like I was the last person to know
but I guess I wasn't, it's not a big deal
so anyways, that's why I wasn't in there when you were smelling my shit
it's because
Erin didn't know I cast Spencer
well, alright
whatever
now I feel weird
well
I understand at least so, Spencer
it's super super not about you, I just felt
I'm making it about me
no, no, please do
I feel embarrassed, I feel a little
I don't know, I'm kind of, I don't know
jealous, it's kind of a personal thing
no, I mean I feel jealous
because Dan
works at community all hours of the day
I feel a little thrown under the bus
right now, I just
want to talk to you, it really has nothing to do with anything
no, I don't, yeah
you didn't know that I had done this thing
Lorraine Newman, come on up here
ugh
uh, no
the guy, the Lorraine Newman
Genie
committed to his role, no
I like that guy
who is the guy, I picture him
as this giant bald
Mr. Clean, like white t-shirt guy
with his arms folded, biceps as big as his head
going, no
no Lorraine Newman
um, alright
what does that mean
I think it means, I think it means
the dungeons are alive
there's a gentleman in the front row handing
Aaron a gift
oh, thank you, it's like
it's a game, it's a geek eye game, because I like games
thank you sir
see
ah
I mean, this is a bummer, I've been so happy all day
I mean, nothing is wrong
I'm happy
no one, no one watched the way that I put it
you can really feel the happiness
no, I'm fine
if it was my show, there would be a whole thing
with Dan in the parking lot and
I'm just kidding, it's totally fine
Lorraine
no
she promised you would be here
alright, Spencer
what's up you guys
why don't you hand out our character sheets
give the people what they may or may not want
a little D&D
they go from the top down
it's yours and then hers and then his
I know how character sheets go
I see you pass them out every day
you clearly do not
yeah
thanks by the way to Glenn Cook
for that earth shine
is the bottle still there
can we fireman line that down to me
I want another sniff
you can just say pass
Instagram the label, it's great
I love the concept of earth shine
Spencer you have all handed that to
yeah
pass me that booze
is that an Avery print
oh Jeffrey
this is probably what I do
you guys he's been sober for 20 years
he's a bad moment
he's a very sad moment
he lost his kids
the camera blurs and becomes a documentary
about Andy Dick
okay
that gulp I took was ambitious
no that was, I saw bubbles come up
how do you
I was like a Pepsi commercial
done skateboarding, time to take a swig
how do you
how do you open that
I'm gonna fuck so many creatures of D&D
I've got that moonshine rage going on
I just cringe watching it
why are you looking at me this way
you don't love me enough
this show got white trashy real fast
Spencer if you would
okay
Kumail's not here I guess
he's always got call types
he misses you guys so much and I hope you back as soon as you can
I miss Kumail so much
are we casting a Chris de Burgh this one
are we playing through the threesies
wait you
what's your name
I got one leg
Ian I don't know you do I
I'm sorry Ian how's it going man
Ian
I love this
Ian for our home listener
has a colorful ball cap
a durak
he's a handsome black gentleman with a thin
moustache
he's a friend of mine too
a friend of yours
I was looking at character sheets when he came up
I would have called it out earlier
how do you know Spencer
Ian how do you know Spencer
I live in a house with his brother
I've known Spencer for years
sounds freaky
alright
I have the thin moustache
he's a friend of mine
sounds freaky
I have the thin moustache
cause I was just in a play
it's called Mickey and Worm
it was a dinner theater play we played it in Oxnard
at a place called the kitchen
can we hear a little bit of that
I had like ten lines I was a bartender
give me one line
here Ian
you know all ten of your lines
you're gonna do each of your ten lines
and I will be the other character
in a segment we call
dinner theater
and in post
we're gonna add in the sound of forks and plates
and things like that
the pet store is now open
so I start off
and I'm like
here's my voice
I'm like welcome to Luatwater's Club Royale
this is circa 1940
thank you guys for coming out tonight
what do you have
I would like a vodka and soda please
thank you
the next line is like mago
which one was mago
don't you ever say that name to me again
mm-hmm
listen to me
don't look around while I tell you this
I'm passing the schematics for a jet pack
across the bar
okay but I was here last night
when did you fire her
it doesn't matter
if the Nazis get a hold of it
we're all dead
right boss
boss
I'll meet you in back
I'll be the one with a monkey on my shoulder
you got it
I want this to go on for the rest of my life
I think we should end there
yeah we'll stop it there
that's probably better
Ian that was very satisfying for all concerns
Ian are you familiar
with Kumail's character Chris de Burgh
I am familiar
he likes to throw a knife with a string attached
correct he has a ribbon dagger now
he's a rogue
don't worry about it follow your heart Ian
he's good at picking locks
he likes trouble
and he's very cautious about tying weapons
to strings and shit
one more time if you will take us back
he likes trouble
he loves trouble
here we are
when we last met
our heroes had slain breffi
in his metal web in dark stars evil lair
that's right
they climbed up and out
of the lava to higher ground
before surveying the above
surveying their surroundings above
they were in a new room
full of horrifically slaughtered corpses
the dead bodies of
Admiral Darkstars dark cultist
then coincidentally
yurch the knoll showed up
the smelly savage was acting suspiciously
drawing the attention of quark and sharpie
using powerful magic
sharpie read the knoll's mind
and covered his evil thoughts
apparently yurch had been practicing blood magic
he used his blood magic
to attack the party but the a party
attacked back
whatever
after dodging his blood spells
quark let loose a
yeah quark let loose a mighty
far sword blast that cut yurch
clean in two slaying the evil
knoll but as the party
headed onward a voice rang out
you'll pay for what you've done
to our blood brother
swore a shadowy figure in the darkness
but before the gang could pursue
this figure it dispersed
confused our heroes charged up the stairs
and into the top of dark stars
dark tower where they found
the man himself
Admiral Darkstar
cut the music
yeah
see
yeah so
so you just ran up to the top of these stairs
and you see in the middle of this room
you don't see anything but a massive
pillar of black crystal and standing
atop that black crystal
is Admiral Darkstar fully
clad in his black plated armor
in a black cape
on his body and he screams
out at you as soon as you come up he
you fools have played
right into my plan
I mean
it would be easy to get you to gather
all the shards but I never
expected you to bring them right
to my layer
now I will collect your shards and
I'll just run a dawn of the dark star
oh boy
yeah
alright
I'll field this
okay
admiral can I call you dark
have I got bad news for you
I
kind of gave all our shards away on the way
here
you don't have them
here's the thing about elaborate
plans like yours
they involve too much
choice on the part of the
people being drawn in we kind of
on the way here we felt like we needed
skeletons
well no matter I still have
the man powered
to dispatch you easily
dark minions
I beckon come upstairs
and protect me
Admiral Darkstar
where are my dark minions
is there a dark minion who can
speak for you
at a lower register
I love the way you're talking
but
hey Mulrainee don't give him
notes
speaking of notes have you guys seen
Anatoly's
have we talked about this
I love it
Anatoly is fully reclined
on the stage
now he's fully reclined
Anatoly are you in show business
yep you are
he dodged that one
sorry sorry sorry
yeah he was screaming some stuff
alright
so
looking for your dark minions sir
yes
probably don't have any
world's worst trap
no shards for you
about to kill you now
do we have our skeleton army with us still
Spencer no they got devoured by lava
oh shit yeah
so it's just us
listen let me ask you this
Admiral Darkstar
who makes a guy like you admiral
I declared myself
well pleased to meet you
I'm general
gonna kick your ass
four stars
and I am
major bummer
and I am colonel
creative murder
coming up the top of the stairs
where you guys are you see one of dark stars
dark cultists coming up
the stairs he's out of breath
hey hey
he's right among you guys
dark cultist hold it right there
I kick him in the chest
no no no
I already did it
alright
this is my only minion
dark cultist
I'm gonna make a proposition to you
we got a situation
in front of us here
that I want you to look around and do the math
Admiral Darkstar is about to get his ass kicked
be our dark cultist
to explain why I just kicked him in the chest
I kick my friends in the chest too
yeah she's
right guys
thank you
I take a Dan Harmon style shit
and to fill the room
with intimidation
the dark minion
is out of breath from coming up all these stairs
but he's like Jesus Christ
you guys did you see down there
there's a bunch of bodies and there are all ripped
of shreds and there is blood in buckets
yeah that was us
we did that oh Jesus Christ
yeah
he faints
oh boy
he fainted
dark army
no
your dark army was one guy
that fainted the sight of blood
oh admiral
black tentacle attack
he raises his arms
and black shadowy ropes
bind you guys or try to bite
you guys by the arms let's see if that happens
you know sometimes when you talk to a villain
he'll attack you guys
that happens
so everyone but a crystal bird gets
caught by these ropes
blackie blackie
damn right
black tentacles can't touch this
no black on black violence
exactly
yeah that happens
can I throw a bowl at him
whatever you guys want to do
a bowl
not like a bowl
a bowl of what
spaghetti
I throw a bowl at him
oh shit
I gotta roll this dice
okay you hit him in the legs
it catches his legs
he falls off the crystal onto his face
fuck yeah
well done
he takes six falling damage
bowler
all right Camel's out of a job
I've always wanted to replace Camel
am I craft box
yeah
do I
I don't know
am I craft box do I have any
hats
okay
I spit tax
at the
rope
at what
at the rope that's binding us
okay they're tentacles
that's a terrible idea
do I have any broken glass
you should have a knife
you have actual weapons
designed for
hurting other things
more realizes that
she's not going to win with
using crafts
my brain shattering
I pull the knife
out of my knife holder
she's and I start
hacking away at the
at the ropes
all right tentacles
you managed to hack your binders away
you're free
oh nice
now
now that's a crowd reaction
now that's not
some crowd reaction
nor was that
why did whatever
how tall is admiral darkstar
he's he's good six feet
climb on his head
no
you're yeah he's like on his
he's on his face right now
on the ground
well perfect
even easier
where are these tentacles that are holding us
coming out of the very ground itself
I try to like grapple
my way through and use my brute strength to get free
I gotta put it at Dan's turn
oh sorry let me ask
you a question about the armlet
of spring sure
which I have always had on my arm
and I have never until now asked you about
it's power
being to entangle yeah
could I assume
control of an entangling vine
it's not really a vine
all right okay
uh I just drank
130 proof
I saw that was
those impressive it was really good
all right well then I'll
can I I can't recast reduced
person on myself can I you could
and it slipped out of the
the serpentine grasp of these
things sure all right
reductum self
them
reducing yourself
to a gnome sized size
you quickly
jump out of your binds and away
from the grasping
tentacles
so
so so dark star
he tries to get up
with Mulraine on him
do you want to try to like
hold him down or yeah
yeah for sure
I try to make him think
that he's in a
I'm just gonna to punish myself
and complete my sentence
I
I'm going to try to make him think that he's
in a different biome by the way
that I am sitting on his head
wait
take that to me
come again
I want him to believe
that he's in a different place
let's see
roll it
wait what
he tries to pull himself up and goes
I feel like I'm in a swamp or some
biome
it's nothing to brag about
and he
he tries to get up
but he doesn't so and said he
kind of swings his arm and tries to punch
you in the kidney
tries
little does he know I have no kidneys
well
either that or he just missed
but in any case
your kidneys are fine
they've not been impacted by anything
great I continue to
sit on his face
putting it up
Jeff's turn
I go into a barbarian rage to get myself free
from these tentacles
throwing yourself into a barbarian rage
you strain against your binds
yeah
you free yourself
thank you
thank you for that
do I have an action now
you burst forth in a show of energy
it was a really fast style
I take my mighty sword and I slash
at
Admiral Darkstar
alright
you charge at Admiral Darkstar and slash
with your mighty sword
and you critically fail
oops
so running towards him
you swing your sword back
and you let go of it
and it just flies behind your back
being a gnome this weight difference
affects you greatly
and you topple on to your face
and you do like three
somersault kind of spins before
landing on your back
wow
I get up and I go
oopsie
you take three damage from skidding on the ground
Jesus Christ
alright I have a quick question so
if I have this what is bluefin poison
is that like bad sushi
what's more like
puffer fish
can I put that on my knife
yep sweet
you can do anything you want in this game
give him a sneak attack
it's your rogue
so I'm going to
sneak attack this guy
with the bluefin poison on my knife
use the poison dagger
through my heart
attacking at his back
with your poison dagger
you plunge it directly between two
you know plates of his armor
thrusting it into the spot
where his meat is
wow
that's not cool
well I mean that's what Christopher does right
he is right for the meat
dealing
what's 5 divided by 2
round it down
thank you
2 damage plus sneak attack damage
which is 4
and 5 what's that you guys
13 15 damage
he doesn't seem too bothered by the poison
for whatever reason
otherwise it's been hurt
never saw it coming
I'm super racist
must be nice
black people problems
I know
I mean if I'm racist for one second
it's like
it's okay I give you permission
I'll even give you a black card
do you want one
what would I do with that
would I just like imply
for one minute
just give it back
to the arresting officer
just say I don't need it
I like this
I'm enjoying this
I'll put it at more
okay
from my position
I take
two of my
arrows
and I
because I'm sitting on his head
I take my two arrows
and I try to stab them through his ears
into his brain
that's vicious
that's a combat maneuver
it's called the brain poke
the brain poke
brain poke
I don't know how I could possibly miss
well I mean in this case
it would be because he's wearing a helmet
no no I guess you mistook my meeting
you hit with one of your arrows
in his head but not the other
one of them pierces through his helmeted head
and stabs him right in the
ear right ear
yeah yeah but inside
inside inside
goes through the ear
into his head parts
to his brain
to his head meat
right into his head meat
and maybe now he's like the cheerleader who can only run backwards
you know what I mean
yeah he can't sing anymore or something
I like that
but that doesn't happen to him
he just gets hit for six damage
I'll take it
blood flows out of his ear
I drink it
that's what you guys were thinking right
I spear it on my face
I write like a big okay
on my forehead
oh god
Mulraine
have more moonshine
earth shines
you're gonna need to see a doctor after this
that's Dan's turn then
all right Sharpie
so I have this level three spell
and it's called major image
illusion with sound
smell and heat
so that's a pretty convincing
I think you cast that
in the green room before the show
you dealt my nose
14 damage
it was a critical shit
that's our show right
after the show
that's the end of Harmontown
not just the show
that's been our show goodnight
I'm kidding
they want it out of here
but that's the show title for sure right
it was a critical shit
that was a boss
yeah
I
I want to create an illusion
yeah of a woman
that looks 20 years older
than Admiral Darkstar
but has kind of his face
in a bathrobe
and saying
and I want to make her go
stop it
what are you doing
you made a mess
go to bed
did you
make your little penis
pee again
I'll bite it off
with my dentures
go back to your Darkstar
bed
Dan I want to take this moment to thank you
for reading my how to play D&D
instruction manual
I appreciate it
so that's what you're doing
yeah yeah yeah right in front of them
oh god man be careful
don't just take alcohol
that's weird
it's getting out of here alive
that's
yeah it's going to be great
I need somebody to drive me home
we got an all Uber tonight
oh that's good
the earth shine
is making its rounds again
guys remember when Jeff said critical shit
that was so
that was so good
I mean
basket it
that's right
oh
the beautiful thing is
I made that guy's fictional mom
yelling him for peeing
after when
Dan are you talking about the fictional mom
that threatened to bite off her son's penis
with her dentures
a little bit of red dragon
a little bit of autobiography in there
I'll let you figure out which
sorry so
Spencer have you rolled that
what no no
he cast angry mommy memory
yeah come on
angry mommy memory
yeah so you
Admiral Dexter you knock it off
he looks at this illusion
and he's like I don't have a mom
I mean
it's
it's yeah
he says that out loud
yeah I go
everyone has a mom
maybe you didn't know yours
maybe you don't understand
the cosmology of all the different planes
in the multiverse
maybe
maybe I don't but
maybe the one thing
that all of them share
is that everyone comes from a mama
and maybe
when you don't know yours you get a little
angry
and you want to make the cosmology
more significant than it is
when it really comes down to simple realities
right Gertrude
and then I make her go that's right
this little shit
go to your room
and I go yeah if you didn't
know her I just
I think that suggests
sure maybe he
remember better if you sang
your song everybody comes
from a mama
it's a great song it's a great song I've heard it
anyway
just roll for it
yeah
I don't want to negate that but it'll just be bad
I'll drop you a beat if you want
here we go
angry mama memory rap
everybody comes from a mama
every mama's gonna have
a son
everybody
needs a friend sometimes
and everybody
wants to lean on someone
so
when you call me
don't expect to reply
and when you fall
for me don't expect
me to ply my wares
cause baby I came to the bar
and I couldn't find you what you doing
two shots and that's through
you fucking that guy again
I took you to the tennis court
I lost again I put the ball
over the net I fucked your mama so hard
she came away wet
everybody in his ass
black car
everybody has a mama's baby
and every mama's baby
has a friend
and every darkstar
needs an admiral
in its navy
and everybody is
alone in the end
admiral darkstar
that's our show everybody
thank you for coming to heart of the town
let's give it up for Ian
that was some good beatboxing
that was some very good beatboxing
thank you Jesus, Adam Goldberg
Glenn Cook for your fantastic earth shine
all of you for coming
everybody here at meltdown
one more time for Spencer Crittenden
Erin McGathy
I'm Jeff, one more time for your mayor
Dan Harmon
this is empty
somebody call us all in uber
I'm gonna...